# Chapter 12 - Pretty URLs (simple way - no router)

## Goals

- Get rid of the unsightly ".php" in our URLs, modernizing our app!
- take advantages of serve default configuration

## Steps

- Step 1:

  Create the following folders in root of the project, at same level of src and views:

  `create`, `delete` and `edit`

- Step 2:

  Move respetive file into folder with same name, p.e: `create.php` file into `create` folder, etc.

- Step 3:

  if you try browse to, p.e: `localhost/create`, one of two things may happen:

  - if you are using tools like `Xamp or Mamp`, you may see something like a tree of folders

  - if you are using a `docker container base on apache`, like my configuration is, you may see an error page like `not found` or `Forbidden`

- Step 4:

  To get this fixed, you should rename the files that you moved in step 2 to `index.php`.

  If you try again to browse, p.e: `localhost/create` the result will be another error.

  However, now related to this line of code: `require __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php'`;`

- Step 5:

  To fixe the previous problem you replace that line on each `index.php` file inside of `create`, `delete`, `edit` folders to:

  `require dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';`

  Where the dirname is the same as doing:

  `require __DIR__ . '/../vendor/autoload.php'`;

  With this fix, you can navegate by write in url bar.

- Step 6:

  Now if you click on `create`, `delete` or `edit`, you find an error like `Not found`.

  Because that file don't exit anymore, instead you should point out the link to `/create`.

  So to fix the the create button, you need to open `base.view.php` in `/views/layouts` and change the value `href` attribute to:

        href="/create"

  In `index.view.php` and replace edit:

        href="/edit/?id=<?= $item['id'] ?>"

  and delete to:

        href="/delete/?id=<?= $item['id']?>"

- Step 6:

  Finally verify if in respetive file of `create`, `delete` and `edit`, when action is execute with success use this:

        header("Location: /");

  To avoid showing in url `/index.php`, because by default will read the root inde.php.

## Explanation

This is simplest way to have pretty url ( url without file extensions).

For simple website, like static website or simple PHP base website or application would be fine.

How this works?

In case you are using tools like Xamp, Wamp or Mamp or Docker base similar to image that i use, all have one thing in common the server, which is an Apache server ( more precise Apache HTTP).

So for an Apache server, exist a default configuration file that has this rule:

    index.html index.php;

This means that for each path of website will try find a file called index.html or index.php by default in case of a path without file extension.

So this:

    /

means in the root of website read index.html or index.php (without append index.php)

And the same to:

    /create

Go to the folder create and try to find if exist index.html or index.php to read and return the content otherwise returns `not found error`.

For static site ( using only html, css and some js) all kind servers have same behavior.

For dynamic websites ( in this case PHP based ), the server, unlike Apache HTTP server, for example ngnix, they have some kind of rule but it is not the default, so the devolper need to create a configuration file with this kind of rule.
